Some of us have been in the truth
for 40 years,
50 years, 60 years, or more.
During our life, we may have been confronted
with various tests, or challenges.
Still, we did not and “we do not give up”
the truth and our precious relationship
with our heavenly Father.
Also, we do not give up
preaching the Word of God.
Second Corinthians 4:16
is the theme scripture
I’ve selected for this talk.
Please locate that with me
—2 Corinthians 4:16.
It says: “Therefore, we do not give up,
“but even if the man we are outside
is wasting away,
certainly the man we are inside
is being renewed from day to day.”
As it said, “we do not give up,”
and we do not give in
when it comes to temptations.
First Peter 3:6 encourages us
to “not give in to fear.”
Deuteronomy 13:6-8 tells the Israelites
that when a false prophet becomes active,
“you must not give in to him
or listen to him.”
In the Sermon on the Mount,
according to an alternate rendering,
Jesus told his listeners to pray to Jehovah
to “not allow us to give in to temptation.”
On one occasion, Peter encouraged others
—1 Peter 3:6: “Do not give in to fear.”
We do give ear
when somebody gives us good counsel;
we give serious thought
when somebody wants to help us;
we give comfort to those in need.
In the first century, Paul gave comfort
to the congregation in Corinth.
Please find 2 Corinthians 4:1 with me,
and we can read it together.
And it says there:
“Therefore,
“since we have this ministry
through the mercy that was shown us,
we do not give up.”
So who were the “we”?
The anointed.
Second Corinthians 3:3
tells the Corinthians
(they are the words of Paul)
that they are like “a letter of Christ
“written by [him and his friends]
as ministers,
inscribed . . . with the spirit
of [our] living God.”
The apostle, then, in verse 5,
humbly acknowledges
that the fact that he and the Corinthians
‘were qualified came from God’
and, in verse 6,
that he “has . . . adequately qualified
[Christians]
to be ministers of a new covenant.”
What did Paul refer to
when he said in verse 1
“since we have this ministry”?
He referred to the ministry
of that “new covenant”
of which he was just talking about.
Please follow the reading
of 2 Corinthians 3:5, 6,
where it says:
“Not that we of ourselves
are adequately qualified
“to consider that anything comes from us,
“but our being adequately qualified
comes from God,
“who has indeed adequately qualified us
“to be ministers of a new covenant,
not of a written code, but of spirit.”
At 2 Corinthians 3:18, he says
“and all of us,
while we . . . reflect like mirrors
the glory of Jehovah.”
Well, who did he refer to
when he wrote “all of us”?
He meant all of the anointed.
In chapter 4, verse 1, he says
“therefore, since we have this ministry
through the mercy that was shown us.”
The expression “therefore”
refers back to the reason and motivation
for the anointed not to give up.
In chapter 3, verse 18,
he refers to the anointed
as being “transformed . . .
from one degree of glory to another,”
culminating in the glory they receive
when entering heaven.
Since the anointed are progressing
“from glory to glory,”
until going to heaven,
they have a strong motivation
not to give up but to endure,
since there is such a precious prize,
or reward, ahead of them.
Understandably, Paul said
in chapter 4, verse 1:
“Therefore, . . . we do not give up.”
Also in 2 Corinthians 4:16, Paul wrote:
“Therefore, we do not give up.”
In the third chapter, Paul contrasts
the old covenant that was “stripped of glory”
with the new covenant that would
(like verses 10 and 11 say)
excel with greater glory
—a glory that would remain.
And 2 Corinthians 3:12 says
“since we have such a hope.”
What hope?
The heavenly hope.
Did you note the similarity
with chapter 4, verse 1?
It said “since we have this ministry.”
What ministry was Paul referring to?
Was he referring to the field ministry
in a general sense?
No.
He referred to the ministry
of the new covenant.
In chapter 4, verse 7,
he then calls
the ministry of the new covenant
a “treasure.”
“Since we have this [treasure],” he said.
It’s not just any treasure.
It was a great incentive
for the anointed in the first century
not to give up in view of this treasure
of the new covenant
that involves progressive glory.
Paul wrote: “Therefore, we do not give up.”
Also, the context of the next verses
shows that Paul was writing
about the heavenly calling
that the new covenant made possible.
What Paul wrote is a strong incentive
for the anointed today
not to give up.
What about the “great crowd”
of “other sheep”?
Paul did not have the great crowd in mind
when he wrote the words
of 2 Corinthians chapters 3 and 4.
In the introduction to his letter,
he referred to “all the holy ones.”
In 2 Corinthians 1:21, 22, he says:
“Who anointed us is God.
He has also put his seal on us.”
However, the great crowd is a recipient
of the radiant blessings
of the ministry of the new covenant.
Some time ago, The Watchtower
made a general application in principle
to the great crowd.
Just like the anointed have
the treasure of the new covenant
and its ministry,
the great crowd also considers
their ministry a treasure.
The great crowd is also determined
not to give up
in view of the beautiful hope
to live forever in Paradise on earth.
And all of us, no matter what hope,
have to endure.
Paul wrote at 2 Corinthians 4:8
that “we are hard-pressed”
—some more than others.
Please find Psalm 90:10.
None of us are exempt from the pressures
that can cause discouragement.
And it says there:
“The span of our life is 70 years,
“or 80 if one is especially strong.
“But they are filled with trouble and sorrow;
they quickly pass by, and away we fly.”
Because of the pressures of life
and disappointments,
most of us grow weary at times.
But we must remember
that God never promised
that we would have a problem-free life
in this old system.
Even in the first century,
God’s servants faced adversities,
including persecution and poverty.
Jehovah does allow his servants
to be tempted and tested.
For the time of the end, he also foretold
“earthquakes,” wars,
increased lawlessness, and “pestilences”
according to Luke 21:11.
In Revelation, he foretold
that a figurative horseman
on the “pale horse”
would kill a large amount of people.
This has happened for decades
but started with the Spanish flu
at the end of World War I,
where an estimated 500 million were affected
—one third of mankind of that time—
and about 50 million died.
Satan exploits our moments of discouragement
just as a lion takes advantage of an animal
when it is most vulnerable.
But we will not give up!
We will not give up if others disappoint us.
In Bible times,
even the most faithful servants of Jehovah
may have felt weighed down at times.
“I have grown weary with my sighing,”
wrote David.
“All night long I make my couch swim;
with my tears I make my own divan overflow.”
Why did David feel that way?
“Because of all those
showing hostility to me,”
he explained.
The hurtful actions of others
caused David such pain of heart
that his tears flowed freely.
Still, David did not draw away from Jehovah
because of what fellow humans had done to him
—and neither do we!
Similarly, the words or actions of others
may cause us much pain of heart.
“There exists the one speaking thoughtlessly
as with the stabs of a sword,”
says Proverbs 12:18.
When the thoughtless one
is a Christian brother or sister,
the stab wound can go deep.
The human tendency may be to take offense,
perhaps harboring resentment.
This is especially true if we feel
that we have been treated unkindly
or unjustly.
We may find it hard to talk to the offender.
We might even deliberately avoid him or her.
Weighed down with resentment,
some have given up
and have stopped coming
to Christian meetings.
How can we avoid
playing into the Devil’s hands
when others disappoint or hurt us?
We must try not to harbor resentment.
It can hurt us so much
that we start suffering from depression.
Instead of giving in
to depression or aggression,
take the initiative to make peace
or settle matters as quickly as possible.
Colossians 3:13 urges us:
“Continue . . . forgiving one another freely
. . . if anyone has a cause for complaint
against another.”
We do not have to fall prey to Satan.
Jehovah and Jesus are on our  side.
How can we find encouragement to endure?
Jehovah deeply cares about those
who may be discouraged.
Acts 17:27 shows
that “he is not far off from each one of us.”
Jehovah comforts and strengthens us
through loving brothers
and through his spirit and his Word.
Reading the Bible daily
and meditating upon it helps.
The publications have encouraged us
to read the Bible through once a year.
Why not make it your resolve
to try such a program?
Nasho Dori, an anointed brother from Albania
who persevered under ban, said:
‘My goal was to read the Bible
‘for at least one hour each day,
‘which I did for some 60 years
before my eyesight failed.’
Was he bragging when saying this?
No.
It helped him not to give up
under the extreme Communist dictatorship.
We do not necessarily expect you
to read the Bible for one hour each day,
but we encourage you to read it through
in one year
and to read it slowly enough
that you can meditate on it.
About 20 minutes a day
provides ample opportunity
to read and meditate on what you read.
If you read so you hear your own voice,
it will help you to read slower
and to meditate.
We also find encouragement
through his organization
—things we read
in the literature or magazines.
And we greatly benefit
from the congregation meetings.
We also benefit from sweet association
with our brothers
—be it live or via television.
So do not give up!
Elders, when they shepherd,
are also a big help for many to persevere.
Publishers in our congregation
do a lot to strengthen us.
According to Hebrews 10:25, it is God’s will
that we keep “encouraging one another,”
and doing so is more urgent now
than ever before.
Let us always keep in mind the inspired words
of 2 Thessalonians 3:13:
“For your part, brothers,
do not give up in doing good.”
Galatians 6:9 similarly says:
“Let us not give up in doing what is fine,
for in due time we will reap.”
What do we conclude from this?
It is in the words of our theme text,
2 Corinthians 4:16:
“We do not give up”!